how would you respond to someone saying
that nihilism is just a cop-out to
actually believing
a greater meaning to life right someone
who said that
would have to believe in you know a
greater meaning
right and i don't what i talk about is
the meaning that you can create
so i don't believe there's a meaning
that someone else has created for you
i think you've got to create it yourself
so that's very different from saying
that life is meaningless
but the point is don't deceive yourself
don't deceive yourself
into thinking either that there's no
meaning in life and you can never have a
meaningful life
or into thinking you can only have the
that the judeo-christian god created for
you
or the god of mormonism created for you
or that the ancient authors of buddhist
philosophy create a few
no the people who wrote buddhist
philosophy
were authors the people who wrote the
book of psalms
in the bible were authors all right
all authority is just authorship and you
too
can be an author you can be a creative
person you can write your own poetry
you can write your own philosophy and
even if you don't
even if you just take someone else's
poetry or someone else's philosophy off
the shelf
and you decide to conform to it adhere
to it obey it believe in it
it's still on you because it was your
choice you chose to believe in it
so any greater meaning in this sense
it's still a meaning of your election
your selection
your creation you just perceive it
as if it were greater than yourself
because you didn't write it
you didn't reason it through right you
accepted someone else's authority
instead of being an author yourself
[Music]
you know not not everyone has what it
takes some people are stupid
you know um some people are just too
stupid and lack the creativity or energy
or work ethic
to you know come up with their own
philosophy
so they're going to remain the prisoner
of someone else's philosophy
but if you at least have this
self-awareness you'll be aware of the
choice you're making
and you'll come to regard those people
who wrote that book
whether it's the bible or the buddhist
canon
as just human beings not so different
from yourself
who sat down one day and decided to
write a story hey
i got a great idea for a story there's a
flood and this man built a boat and put
some goats in it
noah's ark is a story all right buddhist
philosophy
is a philosophy the poetry in the book
of psalms is just poetry it was written
by poets it was written by authors
and you know you may not have what it
takes to write your own philosophy write
your own poetry
but you can recognize that so no in this
sense i'm saying to you positively
there's no greater meaning but there's
the meaning you
choose there's the meaning you create
and it's in that way that you have to
find your way to a meaningful
okay life so so yeah it's not that you
don't
it's not that you don't have meaning
it's your basis so the the traditional
method
is for you to pick from one of the many
different religions
i feel like you kind of acknowledge this
someone named nemo senpai is asking
about uh people who subscribe to
something else like a religion
and they're still kind of determining
their own meaning by sort of picking
which aspects of the religion they
you know a lot of people sort of pick
and choose i feel like where they're
like yeah this is my religion but i
don't believe in this part
i think i don't think we need to address
that i think we all kind of
yeah yeah and i sympathize too i'm going
to say i have a human heart i know what
it's like
you know you still want to have funeral
rituals i get it so
a lot of people still want to celebrate
christmas i don't you know
but you know i understand people have
emotional attachment these things they
have kind of ceremonial
needs if you like you know i do have a
humor people want to have a wedding
ceremony
and they want their grandparents to come
to their wedding so they want to have a
wedding that's
the same i get it but you know this kind
of cherry picking
it's it's inevitable and ongoing in in
any case
and so you have to recognize that you're
at a minimum
recreating the tradition of your
grandparents recreating the tradition
you find in the bible reinventing it
reinterpreting it reapplying it
and then as soon as you start to
recognize that you know you start to
pull apart the tapestry
and realize you know realize what the
options are you have
for the rest of the rest of your life do
you want to keep saying prayers
to a god that doesn't exist do you want
to literally
cut off 60 of the uh
of the nerve endings in your son's penis
performing what's called the
circumcision ritual
just because there's a book that
describes abraham
doing it you know allegedly you know
many thousands of years ago is that a
good enough reason
you talk about before i get the example
of like
trying to justify zionism in reference
to what happened in germany and world
war
ii and there's no connection okay
there's this ancient book that describes
a guy cutting off his son's
foreskin you know performance visual and
and this justifies what you're doing in
your life how you know
this is these are the kinds of
unquestions of belief uh the kinds of
unquestioned
beliefs people live with and sure i'm
saying question everything
and you know you might surprise yourself
you might be a more creative more
positive person than you think you are
it might you might lead a more positive
life than you
than you think you can that seems like a
good note to end on
um so i i had there's a lot of stuff i
didn't get
a chance to get wonderful i know you're
keeping a list
i never know what i'm gonna get with you
man all right great
some of the not all these are going to
be well i'm just going to go with
whatever's in the chat
start with an easy one i mean i already
know the answer but
we got a question what do you think
about pineapple on pizza
uh yeah we we we've had pizza in the
last couple months we've had pizza go
with i asked vegans
yeah yeah i mean you know what i'm gonna
give the most
authentically nihilistic answer i can
which is this
i have never had a pineapple pizza
that tasted good that doesn't mean it's
not out there doesn't mean it doesn't
exist
right maybe i've yet to maybe have you
have to try a pizza
that really makes pineapple work um i
can challenge you with this you know
corn niblets
on pizza like you know corn nibbles out
of a can
in china it's completely standard china
thailand they put corn niblets on pizza
do do you think that can work i can only
tell you that i have never had a corn
niblet pizza that that really worked but
maybe it is possible
one day that was a much more in-depth
answer than i was expecting
i take this stuff seriously